Let's go back to our example, and
let's see how we are doing
right now with performance.
Is it better or worse?
Let's go to Lighthouse and grab,
remember 60 was our last, Score.
Let's see what happens now.
I'm still having my, let's say bad server,
that I can solve as well cuz
that's a problem that I have.
You can see it I'm still at 60.
So why is that?
Well, I can try this several times,
the problem is that we have a lot of
Speed Index, remember Speed Index?
Remember that the average or the budget
is 2.5, and yeah, 7 is actually far away.
And Largest Contentful Paint is better
than before, it was 7, now it's 5,
it's better.
But we are still having problems because
time to first byte is really high.
What is time to first byte?
The time that it takes for
the first byte from the server to appear.
And that is just because
I was adding that delay.
What I want is to remove my middleware, so
we don't have that fake delay, and
now it's a more normal server.
And now it's almost instant, of course
that, yeah, it's still local, okay?
We know that, but we can try to get,
The results from here,
now we are at 94, there is still a place
for improvement, as you can see here.
Largest Contentful Paint
is still 3.0 seconds,
we need to find out why,
and here we have examples.
Well, I'm not converting all
the files into WebP and AVIF,
so that's why it says hey,
you should, maybe, okay,
because I did that only
with the first one, oops.
Also there are some render-blocking
resources here going on,
.css and background.css,
that means a blocking resource is
part of what is known as,
it's the critical path, okay.
The critical path is all the files that
are necessary to render something on
the screen.
So without those files,
the browser will never run there.
For example here,
maybe it's a good idea to merge styles and
background into one file.
And actually be true, it's not going to
be a big difference, but it says hey,
be careful because those
are blocking resources, okay?
Then, and this is true,
our CLS isn't really good because I'm
not setting the width and
height of those images in the HTML.
So you should add width and height, so
that will create CLS layout shift, okay?
Here you can see
the critical path in action.
Of course, this tool is much
better with large websites,
where sometimes it's not so
simple to see it, okay?
But anyway, we are pretty good now,
we apply lots of
techniques, mostly for
getting better web vitals.
There's still room for
improvement, and on every website,
remember that you need to test and
see which things are better for you.
So don't trust me, don't trust the slides,
don't trust the book,
trust your own testing, okay?
That's kind of what you
need to understand.
>> Where would I look to see how you'd
set it up so it's a server first for
the initial load, and then it'd be the
client side rendering for the rest of it,
like the individual-
>> Right, that depends on the framework,
Next.js, Nuxt.js for Vue.js.
>> Does Next.js automatically do that?
>> It will automatically do that,
yeah, you can set up,
you can customize it, but
it is automatic, yeah.
>> So it's automatic with
the server first, client second.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> That's correct, yeah.
But you are still using React.
So every page is a React component, inside
the page you create React component,
you use React components, but
the first load it's actually,
I mean, the same vercel.com is Next.js,
that's the company behind Next.js.
If we create, come on,
cannot create a new report for
some reason, I'm trying to click there,
it's not working.
That's weird, let me remove that one,
no, okay, there.
They are typically proud that
most of the Next.js websites,
they got 99,
I'm not sure what we get here, 85, not 99.
But that depends on the case,
because it's a lab experiment.
But they're using Next.js and
when you look at the page source,
you see HTML, it's not just client side.
I mean, it's not formatted here,
so it's difficult to read this.
Even it has CSS embedded, everything
is done automatically by Next.js in
It embedded the css because it thought that will
be faster for this particular example.